#summary Development Blog

= 2010-01-17 =

I made a new release BIRPN 0.2. `OperatorTest` has now full operator coverage (which revealed some minor bugs in the process). I think it is time for a little feature freeze, until I got yesterday's promises fulfilled.

= 2010-01-16 =

I added three more functions. There was a little bug in ne (not equal), which shows that I should really complete the JUnit tests before making a new release. `OperatorTest` covers now about half of the functions. I'll make a `MetaTest` class for meta functions as well. A meta function page and a little "write your own function" tutorial in the wiki is missing as well.

= 2010-01-09 =

I added some more functions and meta-functions. E.g. to get all primes of the form p = n²+3 below 10000, just write:
{{{
System.out.println(results("1 99 .. foreach:² 3 applyLeft:+ filter:isPrime"));
//[7, 19, 67, 103, 199, 487, 787, 1447, 2503, 2707, 3847, 4099, 4903, 5479, 5779, 8467, 8839]
}}}
I think this is pretty cool. But before getting lost in feature-space, I'll try to focus on getting BIRPN-0.2 out, and to improve documentation. A lot of things are counter-intuitive, and currently it's not obvious to see why the calculation blows up, so improved error messages and logging are on my taks list, too.

= 2010-01-08 =

I changed the internal structure of the project and introduced the function "if". I came up with a funny concept called "meta-functions", which allows you to parametrize functions with functions. I introduced the meta-functions fold and foreach. Here an example what you can do with it:
{{{
//add all elements on the stack
BigInteger s0 = _(1,2,3,4,5,PLUS,PLUS,PLUS,PLUS); //old way
BigInteger s1 = _("1 2 3 4 5 + + + +"); //old way parsed
BigInteger s2 = _(1,2,3,4,5,fold(PLUS)); //meta-function
BigInteger s3 = _("1 2 3 4 5 fold:+"); //meta-function parsed

//decrease all numbers by one
List<BigIntegeger> list0 = results(1,DEC,2,DEC,3,DEC,4,DEC,5,DEC); //old way
List<BigIntegeger> list1 = results("1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 --"); //old way parsed
List<BigIntegeger> list2 = results(1,2,3,4,5,foreach(DEC)); //meta-function
List<BigIntegeger> list3 = results("1 2 3 4 5 foreach:--"); //meta-function parsed
}}}

= 2010-01-07 =

Okay, the scope of this project is quite limited, but I'm working on the next release. I'll add some JUnit tests and maybe some useful functions. The biggest improvement will be, that I make BIRPN "pluggable", which means that you can add your own functions at runtime. 

Today I had the idea to support boolean operations by having a TRUE and FALSE constant, and it seems to work quite well. I included a boolean evaluation function is(...), and a function results(...) which exposes the stack content (if you want to calculate several values at once, like `BigInteger.divideAndRemainder()` does, or for debugging)